infra/README.md, before:

# Deployment Setup

This guide walks through setting up a Digital Ocean droplet to host all enabled apps from this monorepo.

## Architecture

- **Reverse proxy**: Traefik v2 handles subdomain routing and auto-provisions Let's Encrypt TLS certificates
- **Registry**: GitHub Container Registry (`ghcr.io`) — free with GitHub
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions builds Docker images and SSHs into the droplet to deploy
- **Config-driven**: `deploy.yml` in the repo root controls which apps are live

## Prerequisites

- A Digital Ocean droplet (or any Linux VPS)
- A domain name with DNS access
- A GitHub repo with Actions enabled

## 1. Droplet Setup

SSH into your droplet as root.

### Install Docker

```bash
apt update && apt upgrade -y
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sh
apt install docker-compose-plugin -y
```

### Install Python dependencies

```bash
apt install python3-pip -y
pip3 install pyyaml
```

### Create a deploy user

```bash
useradd -m -s /bin/bash deploy
usermod -aG docker deploy
mkdir -p /home/deploy/.ssh
chown -R deploy:deploy /home/deploy/.ssh
chmod 700 /home/deploy/.ssh
```

### Clone the repo

```bash
su - deploy
mkdir -p /opt/apps
cd /opt/apps
git clone https://github.com/RyanZRau/mono.git .
```

## 2. SSH Key Pair

Generate a key pair for GitHub Actions to SSH into the droplet.

```bash
# On your local machine
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f deploy_key -C "github-actions-deploy"

# Copy the public key to the droplet
ssh-copy-id -i deploy_key.pub deploy@YOUR_DROPLET_IP
```

Keep the private key — you'll add it as a GitHub secret in the next step.

## 3. GitHub Secrets

In your GitHub repo, go to **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions** and add:

| Secret           | Value                                          |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `DROPLET_IP`     | Your droplet's public IP address               |
| `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | Contents of the `deploy_key` private key file  |

`GITHUB_TOKEN` is automatically available — no need to create it.

## 4. DNS

Point your domain (or subdomains) to the droplet.

**Option A — Wildcard (recommended):**

| Type | Name | Value            |
|------|------|------------------|
| A    | *    | YOUR_DROPLET_IP  |

**Option B — Per-subdomain:**

| Type | Name     | Value            |
|------|----------|------------------|
| A    | ryanzrau  | YOUR_DROPLET_IP  |

## 5. Configure deploy.yml

Edit `deploy.yml` in the repo root with your actual values:

```yaml
domain: yourdomain.com
registry: ghcr.io/ryanzrau/mono
letsencrypt_email: you@yourdomain.com

apps:
  ryanzrau:
    subdomain: ryanzrau
    enabled: true
    port: 80
```

## 6. First Deploy

Either push to `main` to trigger the GitHub Actions workflow, or deploy manually on the droplet:

```bash
ssh deploy@YOUR_DROPLET_IP
cd /opt/apps
git pull origin main
python3 infra/generate-compose.py
docker compose up -d
```

## Debugging

```bash
ssh deploy@YOUR_DROPLET_IP
cd /opt/apps

# Check running containers
docker compose ps

# View logs for a specific app
docker compose logs -f ryanzrau

# View Traefik logs (routing issues)
docker compose logs -f traefik

# Manually regenerate and redeploy
python3 infra/generate-compose.py
docker compose up -d --remove-orphans
```

## Droplet Sizing

| Apps  | Droplet Size    | Monthly Cost |
|-------|-----------------|--------------|
| 1–3   | 1 GB / 1 vCPU   | ~$6          |
| 4–8   | 2 GB / 2 vCPU   | ~$18         |
| 8–15  | 4 GB / 2 vCPU   | ~$24         |

Traefik uses ~30MB RAM.

## Security Notes

- The `deploy` user has Docker access but is not root
- Docker socket is mounted read-only to Traefik
- Traefik's API dashboard is disabled
- HTTP automatically redirects to HTTPS
- Let's Encrypt certificates auto-renew
- Consider adding UFW firewall rules: `ufw allow 22,80,443/tcp`

Commit message:

Configure ryanzrau app as root domain
- Set subdomain to empty string to deploy at ryanzrau.dev (root)
- Update generate-compose.py to handle empty subdomain for root domain
- Update documentation with root domain and subdomain examples
- Future apps can be added as subdomains (e.g., app.ryanzrau.dev)

https://claude.ai/code/session_01UvayuJVoiv7h2SxSuywdoz

infra/README.md, after:

# Deployment Setup

This guide walks through setting up a Digital Ocean droplet to host all enabled apps from this monorepo.

## Architecture

- **Reverse proxy**: Traefik v2 handles subdomain routing and auto-provisions Let's Encrypt TLS certificates
- **Registry**: GitHub Container Registry (`ghcr.io`) — free with GitHub
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions builds Docker images and SSHs into the droplet to deploy
- **Config-driven**: `deploy.yml` in the repo root controls which apps are live

## Prerequisites

- A Digital Ocean droplet (or any Linux VPS)
- A domain name with DNS access
- A GitHub repo with Actions enabled

## 1. Droplet Setup

SSH into your droplet as root.

### Install Docker

```bash
apt update && apt upgrade -y
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sh
apt install docker-compose-plugin -y
```

### Install Python dependencies

```bash
apt install python3-pip -y
pip3 install pyyaml
```

### Create a deploy user

```bash
useradd -m -s /bin/bash deploy
usermod -aG docker deploy
mkdir -p /home/deploy/.ssh
chown -R deploy:deploy /home/deploy/.ssh
chmod 700 /home/deploy/.ssh
```

### Clone the repo

```bash
su - deploy
mkdir -p /opt/apps
cd /opt/apps
git clone https://github.com/RyanZRau/mono.git .
```

## 2. SSH Key Pair

Generate a key pair for GitHub Actions to SSH into the droplet.

```bash
# On your local machine
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f deploy_key -C "github-actions-deploy"

# Copy the public key to the droplet
ssh-copy-id -i deploy_key.pub deploy@YOUR_DROPLET_IP
```

Keep the private key — you'll add it as a GitHub secret in the next step.

## 3. GitHub Secrets

In your GitHub repo, go to **Settings > Secrets and variables > Actions** and add:

| Secret           | Value                                          |
|------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| `DROPLET_IP`     | Your droplet's public IP address               |
| `SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | Contents of the `deploy_key` private key file  |

`GITHUB_TOKEN` is automatically available — no need to create it.

## 4. DNS

Point your domain (or subdomains) to the droplet.

**Option A — Wildcard (recommended):**

| Type | Name | Value            |
|------|------|------------------|
| A    | *    | YOUR_DROPLET_IP  |

**Option B — Per-subdomain:**

| Type | Name     | Value            |
|------|----------|------------------|
| A    | @        | YOUR_DROPLET_IP  |
| A    | subdomain| YOUR_DROPLET_IP  |

_(Use `@` for the root domain, or specific names for subdomains)_

## 5. Configure deploy.yml

Edit `deploy.yml` in the repo root with your actual values:

```yaml
domain: yourdomain.com
registry: ghcr.io/ryanzrau/mono
letsencrypt_email: you@yourdomain.com

apps:
  ryanzrau:
    subdomain: ""  # Empty string for root domain (yourdomain.com)
    enabled: true
    port: 80
  # Example of a subdomain app (would be at subdomain.yourdomain.com):
  # apping:
  #   subdomain: app
  #   enabled: true
  #   port: 80
```

## 6. First Deploy

Either push to `main` to trigger the GitHub Actions workflow, or deploy manually on the droplet:

```bash
ssh deploy@YOUR_DROPLET_IP
cd /opt/apps
git pull origin main
python3 infra/generate-compose.py
docker compose up -d
```

## Debugging

```bash
ssh deploy@YOUR_DROPLET_IP
cd /opt/apps

# Check running containers
docker compose ps

# View logs for a specific app
docker compose logs -f ryanzrau

# View Traefik logs (routing issues)
docker compose logs -f traefik

# Manually regenerate and redeploy
python3 infra/generate-compose.py
docker compose up -d --remove-orphans
```

## Droplet Sizing

| Apps  | Droplet Size    | Monthly Cost |
|-------|-----------------|--------------|
| 1–3   | 1 GB / 1 vCPU   | ~$6          |
| 4–8   | 2 GB / 2 vCPU   | ~$18         |
| 8–15  | 4 GB / 2 vCPU   | ~$24         |

Traefik uses ~30MB RAM.

## Security Notes

- The `deploy` user has Docker access but is not root
- Docker socket is mounted read-only to Traefik
- Traefik's API dashboard is disabled
- HTTP automatically redirects to HTTPS
- Let's Encrypt certificates auto-renew
- Consider adding UFW firewall rules: `ufw allow 22,80,443/tcp`
